♪ (light music) ♪
In the U.S., healthcare
costs have exploded
over the last few decades,
look at this graph.
Each dot represents where a country ranks
in terms of life expectancy versus
total expenditure on health per capita.
Which data point do you think
represents the United States?
Despite spending more than
anyone else in the world
on healthcare, by a wide margin,
U.S. outcomes are actually sub-par.
Among developed nations,
the U.S. ranks at,
or near the bottom, in both
prevalence and mortality
for multiple diseases,
risk factors and injuries.
Take a moment to answer
the following question.
Approximately three trillion dollars
are spent annually in
the U.S. on healthcare
equaling nearly 30% of the GDP,
listen to what Dr. Don Berwick,
from the Institute for
Healthcare Improvement
has to say about waste in healthcare.
The choice is very stark, it is to chop
or it is to improve, and
if we permit chopping,
I assure you, that the chopping block
is going to get very full.
The first cuts will be
to the most voiceless,
the poorest among us,
but soon after that more and more of us,
fewer health insurance
benefits, declining access,
more out of pocket burdens
and growing delays,
if we do not improve, the cynics will win
and that is what passes the buck to us.
You see, if improvement is
the plan then we own the plan.
The government can't do it,
the payers can't do it,
the regulators can't do it,
only the people who give the
care can improve the care.
Healthcare waste is anything
that does not add value for the patient.
This includes tests,
medications, and procedures
that are not making people healthier.
I started to think I owe you an apology
for talking about costs, I mean,
I know that among the important
dimensions of quality,
safety, effectiveness,
patient centeredness,
timeliness, efficiency, and equity,
I'm not sure any of us would
have chosen efficiency,
the reduction of waste, as our favorite,
it's not my favorite, but nonetheless,
it is the quality dimension of our time.
I would go so far as to say this,
for the next three to five years at least,
the credibility and the leverage
of the quality movement
is going to rise or fall
on its success in reducing
the cost of healthcare
and it's even harder than that,
it's going to rise or fall on its success
on returning the saved
money to other uses,
while improving patient experience.
Identifying and reducing
areas of waste in healthcare is vital
to providing value for the patient.
Remember, our obligation
is to first, do no harm.